So now we're going to talk about one
of the core technologies that we're using in this course,
which is the Jenkins.
Jenkins is the Swiss army knife of build tools,
and it gives you a huge amount of extendability,
flexibility, with a lot of plugins and can use and support a lot of different languages.
So we're first going to just take a look at the history of Jenkins,
which it is brought to us in 2011.
It was an offshoot from some microsystems Hudson which the open-source community
was concerned about having a CI/CD platform which was under control of some microsystems.
So that was the source of the creation of Jenkins,
because they wanted to have this open-source product to
do all of these magical things that we use inside this the CI/ CD space.
So this is just fun these are some of the Jenkins icons,
and this is relevant because for instance Jenkins configuration as code.
One of the most important concepts that we're
going to talk about today is Infrastructure as Code.
Jenkins configuration as code is also very relevant to that as well.
So what that means is your configurations are checked
into a source control repository such as Git.
We also have some other fun icons here,
but they're less relevant to the course that we're sitting today.
The evolution of Jenkins,
the current cutting edge is Jenkins-X,
which really brings in Docker microservices and Kubernetes.
This is the next generation of Jenkins,
but we're not going to cover that in this specific course
because we're more concerned with pipelines.
Next we're going to dive right in with configuring our AWS account.